
# Daily Objectives
- I want to understand how previous experiments measured the wavelength of their beams. This is used to know what is being absorbed.


## Measuring Frequency

[[39300F90-69AA-4AA0-9554-D86684902736.pdf]] This paper uses a spectrometer setup by Sarah Anderson in a configuration by Bethel's Michelson. 

[[8BA8D9EC-CC01-4350-A9B7-8610DF01573A.pdf]] This paper uses an optical layout with a Fabry-Perot frequency marker. I am assuming this is used to measure the wavelength.

Dr. Zimmerman gave me a spectrometer from Thorlabs: LC100 Line Cameras. Will have to see how this works. We are looking more for qualitative rather than quantitative data. He also helped me work through setting up the 1st order diffraction.

## Setting Up

Dr. Zimmerman wanted me to try to get the laser to get diffract back into the housing. Start off by having the diffraction grating angle set as close to the correct value that you can get. Next take a piece of paper with electrical tape on one side and cut a slit in it. Put the electrical tape side towards the laser diode and the piece between the diffraction grating and laser diode. The laser should shine through the slit, diffract off of the grating, and be visible on the back side of the paper. Adjust the diffraction grating to get the diffracted dot to shoot straight back into the laser diode. This will get you relatively close to perfectly aligning the setup. Next, I connected a photodiode to an oscilloscope to measure current. I am now trying to adjust the diffraction to laser diode to get perfect alignment. The current going into the laser diode should be at the threshold of lasing. This can be found here [[L785P090-SpecSheet.pdf]]. This can be tested by graphing input current to output on the oscilloscope. There should be a small slope that transitions into a large slope where lasing occurs. Aligning the laser beam should happen at this "knee" in the curve. I do no think I have gotten there.