# Daily Objectives
- Get the TCLDM9 setup
- Start working with the 3D print


## TCLDM9 Setup

This setup process was relatively easy. Reading section 4 in [[TCLDM9-Manual.pdf]] gave all the details needed to assembly. Furthermore, I believe that a holder around the photodiode was missing. The laser mounting flange does not hold anything in. It simply sits around the whole thing. To correct this I took the holder that was around the original laser mount and put it in this one. [[Laser Diode Collimation Tube.png]] (Its the silver piece in the picture) Make sure that the laser diode pins are in the correct orientation within the housing. I had mine backwards and the laser diode controller was not outputting any current until I fixed this issue. I used a [[L785P090-SpecSheet.pdf]] with the switches atop the mount set to: LD=CG and PD=AG. After hooking up the diode and temperature controllers through their appropriate cables the system turned on without any issues. The diode controller should be set to CG for the laser diode. The temperature controller should have the sensor set to AD590.

Next, I setup to collimating optic that was already with the diode housing. I simply compared the laser dot near and far from the laser and adjusted how far the lens housing was screwed in. This was done until they were the same size. It is important to note the lens and lens mount can be setup in two ways. The lens be screwed in through either side of the lens mount. Achieving collimation took the lens to be inserted into the side without threads on the mount. Then, the mount was screwed in and out of the diode housing to get collimation.

Finally, I ended the day setting up the PID loop on the temperature controller. Following the manual again was sufficient enough to get good results. [[TED200C-Manual(English).pdf]]